Hello and welcome back.
We're starting a new week in the area of
image and video processing.
The topic of this week is Sparse
Modeling.
This is one of the most active areas in
image processing currently.
And is very important for us to describe
this area.
We're going to be using some basic tools
of linear algebra.
So there's going to be a bit of math, but
not as much as we had for example during
the week on PDE's, and variational
calculus and differential geometry.
And as before, everything is going to be
self-contained and I'm going to walk you
through.
So it's going to be very, very simple,
and you're going to be able to catch.
Everything that you need to know.
The fundamentals in Sparse Modeling to
understand, as I say, one of the most
active current areas in the area of image
and video processing.
Before I proceed, I should mention that
I'm going to be using slides that I have
adapted with permission from Professor
Ilad.
I want to let you know also that if you
want to learn more about this topic, his
book is an excellent source for that.
Of course, you don't need the book.
Everything is going to be set, contained.
You don't need to buy the book to enjoy
what we're going to be learning during
this week but if you want to pursue
further this area, it's a good
recommended source of material and
there's also some other presentations on
the web.
And also in the class web page.
In this class web page, we have listed a
couple of places where you can get free
software to play with this area.
So, let's proceed to percent.
What is Sparse Modeling?
And we are going to use as example image
denoising.
Sparse Modeling is used for many, many
other areas in image processing, but
image denoising is a good example to
introduce the basic concept.
So as we have seen before, the basic idea
is that we're going to have a noise
image.
Which we assume again just because we
want a very simple presentation of the
topic that we are having additive noise
added to this image.
So, its the image plus noise and we
want to use Sparse Modeling to remove the
noise.
Or from a noisy image we want to do
something to remove the noise.
Now this can be formulated in the
following form, which is type of a
variational formulation that we have
discussed before.
But now we are in the discreet domain, so
it's kind of a bit simpler.
We have a couple of components.
Why is our image the noisy image that's
all we have.
We measure a noisy image.
And we want to recover a clean image.
That's X.
Now, the first thing is, we don't want
the recover image to be too far away from
the noise image.
And that's the penalization that we have
here.
Is that means square error, between the
image that we observe and the image that
we recover.
We have seen the means square error.
For those that want understandably more,
what we're assuming here is additive.
Gaussian noise.
And basically we are minimizing and this
is the variance of the noise, basically.
Now if we only had this term which fits
the measurements, then what's the
solution to this problem?
What's the image that minimizes this
problem?
Its nothing than the noisy image itself.
So, we haven't done much.
And that's when we add another term that
has multiple names depending on the
discipline.
It's a prior.
It's also called a regularization term
that basically says, yes, I know what
image, I know I want an image that is
close to y, but I want that image to have
certain properties.
Let me say this straight one example.
Let's assume that this is your data.
I'm going to just mark a few points.
This is your data, this is Y.
If I tell you nothing else, but find X
that is close to Y, you're going to stay
with that.
But if I tell you.
That through this function, if I tell you
that the solution is a straight line, I
force you to make a straight line.
Then, you're going to find a solution
which is something like that.
Not the original points but something
like that.
So I gave you prior information.
I gave you a constrain that says, find
something that is close but is also a
straight line and then you got that
solution.
So the basic idea is that we have two
terms.
One that relates dissolution to the
measurements.
And one that basically gives you a prior,
a regularization at condition.
So it's kind of we're projecting the
observation, Y, into this prior.
Now, this is what's called a Bayesian
point of view, following Thomas Bayes,
and the basic idea is that we're
computing what's called the
Maximum-A-posteriori or the map.
We're basically going to compute.
The X that maximizes something, or
minimizes this function.
Depending if we take the function as
itself, we call it a minimizer.
If we look at the probabilistic framework
that this, basically an exponentiation,
so we take this to the exponent and this,
also kind of, to the exponent, that would
be a maximization.
But don't worry.
We do max or we do min, depending on the
sign and depending.
We can always do.
Minus and then we get a maximization, so
that's why it's called the
Maximum-A-posteriori.
We could give to everything that we are
going to be presenting next, a
probabilistic framework, a probabilistic
interpretation and then make this even
more clear.
But the basic idea is that we have a
prior, and in base language this is
called a likelihood.
The prior and the likelihood and both can
have a probabilistic interpretation.
Now, Once again, this models the noise,
In this case, additive Gaussian.
This models the signal.
And a lot of image and in general signal
processing has dedicated a lot of effort
into designing what is the best prior?
What is the best space to define images?
To define different types of signals.
And there has been a lot of work in the
literature of image processing in that.
So.
I'm going to just describe a few.
People say, a good prior is, give me an
image that doesn't have too much energy.
So this is this example.
There is always a parameter here that can
scale it up and down.
There were other priors that say: give me
an image that is smooth.
For example, we have seen when we talk
about in painting, that one way to make
sure of smoothness is roughness.
Instead of having low energy, you say, it
has to be very smooth.
Which means that, when I compute the
roughness, the energy has to be low.
Another prior is to say, that's correct
but we have edges.
So I don't want my edges to be smooth.
I want very sharp edges.
And then we do an adaptation that says
not every place it has to be smooth.
We allow certain jumps.
Another example, is to basically take
functions, not just the quadratic
function, but more sophisticated
functions of smoothness and that's
related to the topic of robust
statistics.
Just another example, we can talk about
total variation, we have seen that when
we need initial tropic diffusion.
This was one of the examples of initial
tropic diffusion that we took basically
the integral over the gradient, not
gradient square, but the gradient and we
got initial tropic diffusion.
We can also do wavelengths, and we
haven't discussed in this class about
wavelengths, but you probably have heard
about wavelengths.
It's a very important topic in image
processing.
Of course, in nine weeks, we cannot
discuss everything, so we have not
discussed about.
Wavelets in particular.
But people have used that.
And you can think about basically
multiplying the matrix, multiplying the
image by a matrix, and then doing some
penalty on that product.
For example, the L1, as we have here, the
absolute value.
What we're going to be discussing during
this week is this particular prior that
we have here.
And I am going to explain it more in the
next few slides and we're even going to
learn more in the next videos.
But this it the prior that we're going to
be talking about.
And basically, it's written here.
But again, I'm going to explain it next.
This has been basically the evolution
and.
Basically, is kind of historical
evolution, they'll know exactly about
different types of priors.
That people have used, that people have
proposed.
Each one has it's advantages and
disadvantages.
We are going to discuss this one.
Now there's much more sophisticted priors
that people have proposed in the
literature.
Some of those are very good but are
computationally extremely expensive and
extremely difficult.
One of the features of many of these
priors and as we're going to see also of
this one its computations are visible.
We can do them.
We can understand the prior and we can do
the computations.
So let us explain what is this.
Prior of Sparse Modeling.